that a few people get wealthy getting
wealthy off of killing Palestinians
which kills Palestinians with their AI
and technology. Oh my family in
Palestine. Yeah. And you know what kind
of person are you? How do you sleep at
night? Well, if you do you want to hear
my answer? Sure. Go ahead. Okay. So, I
think the primary cause of death to
Palestinians. Okay. Do you want to you
want to hear the answer or do you want
to yell? Well, do you don't want to hear
an answer? So the primary source of
death in Palestine is the fact that
Hamas has realized that there are
millions and millions of useful idiots
that will using that excuse. This is why
you don't get to speak because you are
killing my people and you're justifying
it because of her or anyone else.
Can we get security up there? Let one of
the Okay. One of the most How dare you?
How dare you? Your AI and your
technology from Palunteer kills
Palestinians. Mostly terrorists. That's
true. No, it's not everyone. If you say
mostly, so it's okay to kill. Did you do
Look, if your argument was so strong,
wouldn't you let me talk? It's so
strong. It's so strong. It's so strong.
Your argument is
okay. That's Thank you
for support.
If your argument was so strong, you'd
let me talk. If you're
[Applause]
arguing, by the way, just as an ipsso
facto thing in my book, if I I if if you
have an argument
Thank you, ma'am. I think we've heard
you. I think we've heard you. All of
you. Okay. Supporting a
genocide on all of you.
[Music]
people. I think you came to the wrong
event.
Okay. It's Well, no.
It
it how about like Okay. I if if anything
Okay, have a great day. First of all, I
really support free speech. So, the part
where you get up and say what you think,
I'm 100% on your side. Like, you want to
come in here and accuse us of doing bad
things, regurgitate, where I'm a sick,
bad person who's doing it for power, and
I'm enjoying watching people suffer.
Okay, great. I 100% support her right to
say that. But the thing on our side that
we have to fight for is we have to fight
for dis a right to discuss and say our
side of this or my side of this and like
one of the most important things about
the book which you may not want to read
is you don't need to read is if your
argument is that strong why will you not
let the other side talk and and there
it's like it's like it's obviously if if
the argument was as simple and and by By
the way, the pain of Palestinians is
something that everybody and anyone who
dies in war, obviously people care
about. The obvious solution to war is to
have the West having the strongest, most
precise, deadly weapons possible so that
we can minimize unnecessary innocent
deaths. And by the way, the primary way
you minimize these deaths is you're so
strong no one attacks you. And that's
how you actually do it. Now, there are
many sides to this debate. One of the
things that's really frustrating in the
West is I spent a lot of my life in
Germany. I'm kind of pro-German culture,
especially where it actually works. You
know, we kind of all support something
like climate. I think most people
support regulated immigration. You have
20% of your society in Germany who are
just radical to the point where the
ideas make no sense but they 100%
believe and then they end up controlling
the policies of the whole society and
the responsibility we have who want
pragmatic real world solutions like of
course wars lead to innocent deaths.
What do you do to minimize the death?
Why did October 7th also includes how
were there security lapses? You know,
those are these are really important
questions. Could it be done better? How
would you do it better? What is
America's role? Who do we sell to under
what conditions? Who controls the
technology? Does does America control
the products we produce? At what point,
if we're going to have generalized
deadly AI? Does the government have a
responsibility to control who owns it?
Who runs it? What is it used for? Is
there a sense in which you have to be
politically and culturally aligned? Can
you have a discourse of discussion?
These are all completely legitimate
topics. But if we who disagree with
being shouted at do not stand up and
say, you know, [__] it. We got to fight
back. At least talk about and force
discursive discussion, they will win.
It's like they just they take it to an
extreme where it's obviously absurd. And
by the way, and where it's very much
linked to, you know, what happened in
the mallet. I believe she believes I'm
evil. I believe she's an unwitting
product of an evil force. Hamas that she
unwittingly is part of their strategy
that she is a product and the most
important thing arguably in the book or
what Paler or what you could learn is do
not become a product of an ideology that
sounds sensible because the minute you
become a product of that ideology you'll
be weaponized and like the consumer
internet version is you become we become
more divided and less smart and less
happy and the political version of it is
you won't let anyone provide a different
opinion because of course that person
has to be evil and the opinion that is
actually probably less productized is
more nuanced and then quite frankly
because you also probably have to make
ethical implicitly adopt an ethical
hierarchy. So the hierarchy of my book
and our company is the west is superior.
It's simply superior because we can have
this discussion. She can yell, I can
respond and we have to fight to make
sure that breaks down. The thing that
scares people about AI is scary which is
that it can be abused. It will give
great powers much more power over than
than they otherwise would have without
it. And it will lead to a hierarchical
disparity which will lead to how the
world is governed. Which is why we have
to win this in America. Because I if in
fact another great power gets this
technology and has ability to more or
less precisely target more efficiently
target more accurately use actual
devices that currently work which is
like hardware software hybrid devices.
they will define the world order and
that world order is going to look like
the person doesn't get to speak or they
only get to speak and that's what we do
not I do not want and that actually is
what we have to fight for and Alex if I
could just add something in the freedom
of this country
in the freedom of this country you're
attacking the US government
people vote with their
What is happening in a disaster and you
are responsible
people vote with their feet in the
freedom of this country these protesters
are using our democracy to attack our
system of government and we support
their freedom of expression but it's
important to remember that the freedoms
they enjoy here they would never be able
to cause this circus in Gaza and so it's
important to keep that in mind So,
shifting gears a little bit. I haven't
had this much fun in a long
time. Like I maybe I should come back
tomorrow. This is like my I I'm actually
a reformed academic and and and I I I've
got the I got very I I spent half my
most of my life. There are many
Palunteerians here hiding actively
hiding my dyslexia. It's probably the
only thing I've ever hidden. Like I
probably should have hidden more of my
personal life or definitely should have
hidden my political views. I should
have, you know, I got lots of people to
quit parent. I didn't want to quit by
telling them things that were seen
insane or offending them, which I
apologize for. But, you know, the dinner
table basically was, I mean, obviously
it wasn't just shouting, but like
discursive and there usually was an aunt
or an uncle who was occasionally over
who would pull something like this, but
it was usually from the far left just
like, "But the means of production are
so stacked against the working class.
How can you have a view?" So in this
room we have a lot of builders who want
to build great products and who want to
build great companies. Obviously
Palanteer is now you know I lose track
of the market cap 200$220 billion market
cap depending on the day of the week.
What are some of the organizational
lessons that you think have made
Palanteer a great company and what
advice do you have for policy makers to
make our government culture more
efficient and effective?
believe we're in our infancy, but I
think every real company that succeeds
at a scale like basically I think
there's a binary thing in the history of
companies like can you get to a billion
dollars in revenue or not and it's an
important metric
because parts of a system can go well
and can get you pretty far but if you
can cross the billion dollar mark then
something is really gone well and it
it's not just it's not just something
falling together. I would to get to that
kind of mark, you have to have a
founding team where people are doing
something where they have a
primordial level talent, I mean inborn
talent that they're willing to dedicate
every ounce of their life to probably
for 5 years or more. And I believe to do
that you have to have a belief structure
on top of it. The pain of dealing with
highly talented people or the most
talented person you've ever met is going
to be very very high. And I don't know
how you do that without some belief. Now
the belief doesn't have to be I would
prefer it to be western values and the
superior of the west defined like I see
it but it doesn't have to be that. But I
would say and as absurd as that kind of
sounds, look at the counterfactual.
Almost every great company in the world
is built by builders in this country.
And why is that? I again take the German
example. Germany has people that are
equally talented, equally smart. They
believe much smarter, which they tell me
whenever I go there. And yet in this
country and and why is that? One of the
reasons is we have, you know, our
version of religious freedom is you get
to define your own church, synagogue,
mosque or cult. And and then you get to
set largely the rules of your own
religious community. And that seems like
a benality, but it really only exists at
scale in this country. So as you know in
Europe, if you move to Germany or
Switzerland, you're Jewish, Christian or
Muslim. And then it's the community
standards defines whether you're a
member. And in this country, you get to
decide and you get to set and th this is
the we have a belief culture and that
and and if you combine that with enough
technical people and pragmatism, you can
have a great company. But the part that
people leave off the balance sheet when
they talk about builder is the belief
side. And I think there was like a flash
in the pan where there were companies
where the people were just completely
narcissistic. And there is a narcissism
to believing you're going to do
something. A productive narcissism I'd
like to believe of believing you're
going to do something really big and
great even though the odds are stacked
against you that's necessary. But
believing there is something larger than
the numbers that is more important than
the numbers that gets you through the
pain of failure and in my view the
greatest task ever which is working with
someone who annoys the crap out of you
every day for 5 years and deep into your
pores annoys you. It requires belief and
then I think especially now you really
obviously have to have something that is
actually diff differentiated and
actually deep and hard to do. Now, deep
and hard, it can be a combination of
tech depth and an ability to sell into a
difficult market. Like breaking into the
US government to get them to buy
something that they couldn't measure,
couldn't see, couldn't feel, couldn't
test software was really hard. And you
know, I think it's gotten easier, but
it's still hard. Businesses have
basically two components. deep tech and
some way of getting someone to buy it.
And you need to do both. And that's why
it's very hard because most people who
can do the deep tech probably are
building the wrong product or can't get
the product out of the first or the
second or the 10th or the billionth out
of the jar. And so you have to think
very seriously about both of those in
what you're building and how you go to
market. And then you want to be in
America. Honestly, if you're there
people from all over the world here and
I want the West to
succeed. If you want to know how good
you are at tech, you do it here. It's
not just this people tell you it's a
scale thing, a capital thing. No, it's
also it's people. This is more of a
metier or an art form than a science.
And all the artists are here. So, you
got to come here. If your government
doesn't want you to be here, come here.
This is where the action is. You can
then build it and then go abroad or
build it, co-uild it. But it's like if
you want to be in the NFL, you come to
America. You want to be in tech, you
come to America. You want to do lots of
like I wanted to be a philosopher till I
realized it was ridiculous. There are
lots of places you could go to be a
ridiculous philosopher. Germany is a
great place for that and you'll have a
great social life. People appreciate
that. But you know, so that this is
where the action is and and it's really
important not to ignore these benalities
because they they will determine your
fate. And then, you know, it's really
important to have dialogue. You don't
you should have a low tolerance for
stupidity. I mean, in public when you're
talking to people, you really want to
ste you want to steal man. It's a
contradiction, but you want to steal man
everything you encounter. How could this
stupid thing actually be true? is a
really important question. But if the
stupid thing is actually
stupid and if it comes from a worldclass
wealthy person, it's still stupid. It
the stupid but you can't just write off
things as like this obviously makes this
is obvious. You have spent a lot of time
figuring out is something that otherwise
looks dumb actually smart and that's
hard to figure out but you know that
it's not a prestige thing. And a lot of
smart people and accomplished people say
things that used to be true. And like
one of the reasons we succeeded at
Palenteer, like we sued the government.
I've told the story a thousand times, so
some of you have heard it, but I sat
here and the most famous people sat
there and they said, if you sue the
government, everyone will know you're an
[__] And I'm like, I don't really
view myself as an [__] And so we
sued the government. And they were right
that it was really stupid. And I was
right that if we didn't change the way
procurement was done, this nation would
not be strong and good and we would
fail. And there are a lot of people here
in this room who you know have great
companies because of their innovation
and their hard work and their dedication
to specialized talent and also because
we sue the US government and now there's
something like meritocracy. So you can't
you're still shooting uphill, but
shooting uphill and shooting like to
Mount Aberish where they're dropping
grenades on you is a different story. So
Alex, in closing these two protesters
was actually my secret way of creating
the perfect segue to talk about your
assessment of America's policy in Israel
post October 7th. And I wanted to ask
you where does Palunteer I mean as a
philosopher you pine a lot on cultural
issues and Palanteer took out a full
page ad in the New York Times post
October 7th to say Palanteer stands with
Israel. Where do you source that moral
conviction and can you explain to us a
little bit why that's so important to
you?
Well, you know, I think at the end of
the day, moral conviction is just
conviction. And for better or worse, we
have it at Palenteer and lots of people
don't agree with our convictions. I do
think having moral conviction is one of
the main re it's too simple to say you
have clarity of conviction and therefore
you're going to succeed. That's not
true. But I do think the inverse is also
much harder than people think. without
any kind of conviction I think it'd be
very hard to stick with you know we had
17 years of where everyone was short
pounder I mean everyone I mean so and we
stuck with it and you know and and then
also the kind of highly meritocratic
environment comes with pain and so you
need conviction to get that to work and
flat hierarchy means everyone's telling
you're stupid all the time so you need
conviction to get that to work the west
has to survive
I think we have a way of ordering our
life that is very special and is very
underappreciated often by our elite
institutions especially and if we lose
it we will lose everything that makes
everything work in this world. I I I
don't know exactly where the source of
my personal convictions come along. It's
more just a belief structure, but I'm
very proud we have them. And I think as
importantly what like every
time we reach a new milestone so billion
dollars you know in each segment of our
company or what it the most one of the
more important attributes of it is you
win arguments in in this country and
industry by having convent conviction
that leads to big tendies which is a
retail investment way of saying money.
And so if you want to convince the world
that you're right about something and
you're a builder here, one of the best
ways to do it is to build a great
business because everyone will listen.
you know, I'm not the stuff I'm saying
now is arguably the same stuff I've been
saying for many, many years, and it
wasn't that worth, you know, it's like,
so I think you win arguments by
basically building a castle of success
and letting people look at it and then
they basically assume that the way you
see the world, and by the way, again,
this is kind of in the book, but one of
the most important interaction actions I
had was a poor very poor graduate
student was so poor I had this family in
this rural village that gave me a coat
in Frankfurt no one knew a fascist
during the war in this village people
were like yep I was basically a Nazi one
of the most important things I learned
from them was it was the fact that
America and aware American ways of
thinking made them healthier and
wealthier and happier that changed how
they saw the world much more than
anything else and if you want to change
how people organize. If you want to
create a discursive environment, if you
want to widen the aperture of access to
things that work, educational reform,
including meritocratic
institutions across uh our society,
including universities, you've got to
show it in action and then people will
judge you by the fruits you bear and
that will have an enormous impact. One
of the reasons I think a lot of us still
fight both current Palunteerians,
ex-Palitarians, customers, partners,
investors fight for us or defend us or
at least tolerate things they may not
exactly agree with is because they know
we're fighting to get something to
actually work. And that that is actually
how you shift the dialogue. And and if
you want to steal man, why are they
yelling and not talking? What are they
building? One of my favorite things I
have most of my family is left of center
and I one of my favorite things is and
I'm I view myself as a classic liberal.
My first question is always show me an
institution you respect that's actually
working and that shuts things up very
quickly and I say I'll give you an
institution you don't agree with a lot
my company and it's actually working.
Why don't you try to figure out how you
can take some meritocracy and put it
into your worldview because that might
work. How about working with people who
disagree with you? That might work. How
about taking something and building
something where the inputs are much less
than the output, which is the primary
determinative of something if something
is working. And and then what you will
get is you'll split you essentially
split the ocean. One side will yell at
you and tell you you can't say this, you
can't think this, you can't do this. And
the other side, people who equally do
not agree with me like yeah, you know,
that's a real challenge. And it's those
people that say that don't agree with
you that are open for a system that
actually works like a system that that
any system in a
differentiated complicated society below
which we cannot regress without
destroying all of our lives is going to
have certain attributes. Talented people
are going to succeed more. Hardworking
people are going to see more. There's
going to be wealth inequality. You're
going to have to deal with ways to test
for merit. There may not be the simple
ways we know. And you're going to have
to produce something where the inputs
are less than the outputs. And we have
to get, you know, and and those and and
the way you convince people of this is
you do something that's successful and
you challenge them to have their
worldview produce something that is
better. And usually what you'll find is
half the people will say, "Yeah, well,
you're you're kind of some form of bigot
or you're evil." And the other half will
be like, "Yeah, okay." and and then
that's how you organize things and
that's how you actually make a lot of
change. Jensen, welcome to the Hill and
Valley Forum. It's great to have you.
You've positioned AI as a new industrial
revolution with AI factories at the
center of it. Can you explain to us what
is an AI factory and why is it important
to understand in the 21st century
economy? AI, well, we've been talking a
lot about AI over the last several
years. It's multifaceted and I think
it's helpful to look at it in this lens.
First, of course, AI is a new
technology. It's a new technology in the
sense that it's built differently than
software of the past. And this new
software can do things that software the
past could not do. So, it's incredible
technology. All the things it can do,
you know, all the things that we have to
do to keep it safe, all the amazing
things that it's going to enable.
Fantastic. So, there's the technology
layer. The second layer which is rather
new in the last technology industry
software production. It was done by
humans typing. Now we have a new
industry and this software is produced
with machinery. So you need a large
supercomput. You apply electricity to it
and what comes flying out of it are
tokens. And these tokens could be
reformulated into numbers and words and
proteins and images and videos and
three-dimensional structures. And you
know, you could reformulate these tokens
into all kinds of things. We call it
intelligence. And so this machinery
looks different than the machinery of
the past. And I call it an AI factory
because it does one thing. Every single
day it's producing tokens. And the layer
above that is infrastructural. And this
is the reason why we now internalize
that AI is likely going to be quite an
extraordinary industrial revolution in
the sense that this new technology is
going to enable a new industry that I
just mentioned, AI factories, the
production of intelligence, but it's
going to go back and revolutionize and
transform every other industry. And so
all of these tokens are going to go into
healthcare and education. One of my
favorites is education. I use it every
day for education, financial services,
engineering. We use AI every day for
software programming and supply chain
management. It's about to go into
manufacturing and so on so forth. And
so, so when you think about it from
these three layers, it's very clear this
is as transformative as impactful as
electricity was before and it's going to
revolutionize every industry. So, it's
an industrial revolution. So, do you
think it's a paradigm shift in modern
computing and that every factory that's
building physical things in the real
world will also be accompanied by an AI
factory? Yeah, perfect. Absolutely.
Every every company that makes things
today
uh so long as they move, you know, so so
let's say you make lawnmowers or they
build construction machinery. Today it's
largely manually manipulated. In the
future, it'll be autonomous or highly
autonomous or semi-autonomous or
assisted. But when it becomes
autonomous, then it'll be software
defined. And and so you're going to have
to produce those tokens, those software
that feeds that tractor. And so in the
future, every company that builds things
will have a factory that builds the
things that they sell. And then they'll
have another factory that builds and
produces the AI that runs on that thing
that they sell. And so it's very clear
when you look at look at car companies
you know today's car companies largely
make cars but it's very clear that in 10
years time every car company will also
produce the tokens that runs in those
cars you've talked a little bit about
physical AI the concept of physical AI
over the last year for policy makers who
are thinking about the future of
American policy can you explain to us a
little bit what physical AI is and how
we should be thinking about it take a
step back AI I really came to
consciousness. Modern AI really came
into consciousness about 12 14 years ago
when AlexNet came out and computer
vision was this big giant breakthrough
and that was like I guess 2012.
Around that time when you take a step
back what is computer vision in its
largest context is perception you know
perceiving the world whether whatever
modality of information it could be of
course images it could be sounds it
could be vibration temperature and we've
now developed AI models that understand
the meaning of all of that information
and can be quite smart about it the
first layer the first wave of AI was
perception AI the second what everybody
started talking about maybe 5 years ago
was generative AI and generative AI is
where the AI model has learned how to
understand the meaning of the
information but translate it. So for
example, you could understand English
and translate it to French. You could
understand English and translate it to
images and so you could prompt it to
generate images. So, generative AI is
essentially a universal translator, if
you will, a universal translator that
understand the language of humans. And
so, that's the next wave. The wave that
we're in now is where you now have AIs
that can understand, it can generate,
but as you know, intelligence requires
us to solve problems and recognize
conditions that we've never seen before.
And the way we do that is we use
reasoning. We apply rules and laws and
principles that we've learned in the
past and we break the problem down step
by step by step and even though we've
never solved this problem before through
reasoning we can solve it. Okay. And so
one of the unique capabilities of
intelligence and so we're now in that
this age called reasoning AI and
reasoning AIs allow you to produce a
form of digital robots. We call them
gentic AI agents. has agency and so AI
that can understand the task that's been
given it can go off and learn and read
apply use tools like calculators and web
browsers and spreadsheets and then come
back and does something for you and it
could be something related to supply
chain so it accesses SAP it could be
something related to HR access workday
and so these Gentic AIs are essentially
robots but they're uh digital workforce
robots and so in the future you know
we're going to be We're going to be the
generation of CEOs that are going to
manage biological workforce as well as
digital workforce and HR department for
the biological workforce and our IT
department are going to become the HR of
Agentic AI. Right? This is kind of the
phase we're in today. The next wave
requires us to understand things like
the laws of physics, friction, inertia,
cause and effect, the fact that I tip
that thing over, it's going to fall.
That you know when I set the bottle
down, it's not going to go through the
table. And so all of these common sense
physical reasoning abilities that
children have that our our our pets
have, most AIs don't have. You know, I
roll a ball over the kitchen counter and
it goes up over the top and it
disappears. Well, the AI thinks it's
disappeared, but you know, your dog
knows it. It's on the other side. It
understands this concept called object
permanence, and it didn't go into
another metaverse. So, it runs around
the table and gets it. And a robot needs
to learn that if you want to go from
this side of the table to that side of
the table, you can't go through the
table. You got to have to reason about
how to go around the table. And so all
of these type of physical reasoning
things is what's called physical AI. And
when you take that physical AI and then
you put it into a physical object called
a robot, you get robotics. And this is
really important for us now because
we're building plants and factories all
over United States. And we'd like to
build it in a way that's takes advantage
of the latest technology. And so
hopefully, you know, in the next 10
years as we build out this new
generation of plants and factories,
they're highly robotic and they're
helping us deal with the severe labor
shortage that we have all over the
world. So many people have talked about
this concept about the fact that we're
in an AI race globally. What do you
think the US government needs to do to
win that AI race to have the very best
AI technology? First, in order to have a
race to do well in a race, you have to
understand the race and you have to
understand the resources that you're
working with, the assets that you have,
the assets you don't have, your
advantages and your disadvantages. And
some of the things to realize is that
that AI is fundamentally
um at this core level going back to the
three levels that we're talking about at
each level we have to make sure that we
understand the game. And this game isn't
there's no 60-minute clock on this
thing. This is an infinite game. And so
most people aren't very good at playing
infinite games. You know, Nvidia is now
33 years old. We've been through three
computer revolutions from the PC
revolution to the internet to mobile and
now we're in AI. And so in order to
thrive across all of these different
changes in the environment, you have to
understand how to play games. And so the
things that I just described,
understanding the game, understanding
the assets you have really important at
the first layer, at the technology
layer, the most important thing to
understand is the the intellectual
capital. And remember, 50% of the
world's AI researchers are Chinese.
First, just take a step back and
recognize that important factor has to
play into how we think about the game.
The next is AI factories. In order to do
well there, you need to have energy
because fundamentally we transform
electricity into digital tokens. Just as
the last industrial revolution
transformed atoms through energy into
steel things and physical things that we
know, cars and things like that,
buildings and things like that. And the
generation before that, we gave it water
into a machine called the dynamo. And
what came out was electricity. And so
now we have electricity go in and tokens
come out. So the next layer requires
energy. The layer above
that is just happening now. And it's
really really important that we
understand that ultimately the winners
of the last industrial revolution wasn't
the country that invented it. It was the
country that applied it and the United
States
applied applied steel, applied energy
faster than any country. Everybody else
was worried about things like labor and
you know horses being replaced by cars
and you know those kind of matters but
the United States just we just took it
and ran with it. And so the
infrastructural layer above that is
about the application of the technology.
It's about not being afraid of it,
wanting to engage it, reskilling our
workforce so that we're able to apply
it, encouraging people to adopt it. And
so when you look at AI through the lens
that I just described, the framework
that I just described, each one of the
layers has its own, if you will,
challenges and opportunities, and the
game's a little different in each one.
On the workforce point, the press has
been so focused on weaving the narrative
that AI could potentially lead to mass
displacement of labor and and mass
unemployment. Could you help paint a
picture a little bit about what your
prediction is for the impact of AI on
the job market, but also more
specifically on what you see as the
potentially new categories of jobs that
we're potentially not even thinking
about today that could actually come
into being. Some jobs will new jobs will
be created. Some jobs will be lost.
Every job will be changed. Okay, so
let's just break it down. It's always
easy to go to one extreme from another.
But I always find it helpful when you
break the problem down, reason about it
from its first principles. And again in
this framework that I just described at
the lowest layer as you know and Jacob
you're you're deeply integrated into
venture investment and you know what's
going on in AI and you know at the
foundational layer it's because of AI
that San Francisco is back. Anybody who
lives in San Francisco you'll know what
I'm talking about. Just about everybody
evacuated San Francisco now it's
thriving again. And it's all because of
AI. And AI creates a new type of job.
And the fundamental reason is because
it's software development, but done in a
different way. We've changed every layer
of the technology as a result of AI.
What used to be human human coded
software running on CPUs are now machine
learning generated software running on
GPUs. And so every single layer, the
tooling of it, the compilers of it, the
methodology of it, the way you collect
data, curate data, use AI to guard
rails, use AI to teach you, use AI to
keep the AI safe. All of that technology
is being invented right now and it
creates tons of jobs. At the next layer,
this is where the giant opportunity is.
Remember I just said that we're going to
create a new type of factory and this
factory has electricity come in and it
generates tokens out. A 1 gawatt factory
and we're you know in the horizon
building something like 7 8 10 gawatts
of AI factories. One gawatt factory is
$60 billion.
$60 billion for one
gigawatt. A 100 megawatt factories is
pretty commodity now. It's pretty common
place. And so you just divide that by
10.
$60 billion is the annual one one
factory is the annual revenues of Boeing
and to build it you have to finance it
creates a lot of jobs you have to build
out the site the shell creates a bunch
of jobs construction you know you got
carpenters you got steel workers you got
masons you you know you got to build out
that factory $60 billion factory this
thing is
gigantic you have to have mechanical
engineers electrical engineers plumbers
And then after that all the low voltage
stuff, all the IT and the networking,
after that operations, that entire cycle
is about 3 years. A whole bunch of new
trade jobs have to be created. These
trade
jobs in the last computer industry, the
last computing platform shift, the
number one critical path for most
companies growth is software engineers.
our the this next layer AI factories the
number one is going to be trades the
trade craft and I think this is terrific
our country needs to needs to
acknowledge that tradecraftraft is
respectable work and it's critical work
and it's necessary to build our country
and so we want to encourage
tradecraftraft electricians plumbers you
know carpenters steel workers the whole
span of it we're going to need a whole
bunch and then now above that is when we
can start talking about how are these AI
agents going to change the work of
doctors or uh financial service
professionals or customer care or in our
company just as a starting point. Every
single software engineer is now assisted
by AI assistance and the amount of code
that we check into the company is
incredible. As a result, our
productivity has shot up through the
roof and we're hiring more people
because it enabled us to create more
things that the world desires. increases
our revenues and increases our ability
to hire. And so I think that that layer
above really wants to engage AI as as
early as you can. Remember, it's not AI
that's going to take your job. It's not
AI that's going to, you know, destroy
your company. It's the company and the
person who uses AI that's going to take
your job. And so that's, you know,
something to internalize. There's been
such a huge amount of focus lately on
bringing manufacturing back. A lot of
people in the AI space have talked about
the concept of how digital twins and
manu and manufacturing plants adopting
digital twins could actually help enable
rebooting manufacturing here. And
simultaneously the CEO of Apple, Tim
Cook, recently said that one of the main
bottlenecks to reshoring and making the
iPhone here was having a good and
precise robotic arm technology. So on
both counts, it really seems like AI
could be an enabling technology for
manufacturing and reshoring. Could you
tell us a little bit more about what
your prognosis is on that? Yeah. Well,
first of all, manufacturing is not about
lowcost labor. Advanced manufacturing
today is software. The entire factory is
software driven. The entire factory is
one giant robot. And it's a robot
orchestrating a whole bunch of robots
inside. And so these advanced factories
has a lot of people in it, but it's
largely technology. And so so I think
the the the first part of it is is in
our industry and and I'll just talk
about mine. The ability for us to
manufacture
um end to end from silicon to the AI
supercomputers uh here on shore is a
terrific opportunity and and I'm I'm
delighted that the administration is
really encouraging and supporting the
industry to onshore manufacturing. This
is a this is this is highquality work.
It's advanced technology work. Um doing
it on shore is a fantastic opportunity
and I'm I'm very I'm very enthusiastic
about it. We're huge proponents of it
and we're fortunate that we have
partners around the world who are
supporting us to do that. That's number
one. Second, if we don't get good at
manufacturing, we're going to leave
behind a giant industry. What country
doesn't want to get engaged in this new
industry called AI? Why would you not
want to produce
AI? Why would you not want to engage in
one of the most advanced manufacturing?
You know, it's manufacturing. It just
happens to be numbers it when it's done.
And just like it was electrons at the
last industrial revolution, you know,
most people couldn't understand that you
could create this thing through a
machinery called dynamo. Now we call it,
you know, Nvidia AI supercomputers. But
back then a dynamo what produced what
came out of it was invisible. It's
electricity. Don't touch it, but it's
electricity. It's electrons. And now,
you know, it's a new form of electrons
is numbers. And so of course we want to
engage in this this new industry and in
order to do that we have to have
manufacturing on shore. Now the thing
that that is is absolutely the case
because manufacturing is so technology
intensive. We should do it in a digital
twin first. We should do it in virtual
reality first. Nvidia designs the most
complex systems in the world. Each one
of our generation R&D, call it $20
billion, maybe more now, but call it
2020 20 billion dollars of R&D just to
produce a family of chips. We com we
designed those chips completely in it in
their digital twin. They existed for
months and months and months long before
we ever produced it. The moment I
produced it, I know it to be perfect. I
know it because we've simulated it
exhaustively and we emulated it and we
put it into its paces. We should do the
same with digital factories, large
factories. We should completely create
digital twins. Use artificial
intelligence to create these digital
twins. Operate it. Well, virtual
integration, integrate these magnificent
structures completely digitally. Operate
it, optimize it, and use it for planning
your output completely digitally. And in
the future, every factory will have a
digital twin version. Every in the
future, you know, and I'm hoping every
human will have a digital twin version.
Every car has a digital twin version.
Every building has a digital twin
version. Every city has a digital twin
version. So this idea of digital twins
is happening now and it's all happening
because of artificial intelligence. What
is your expectation on the timeline by
which we live in a world where AI
enabled robots become a ubiquitous part
of everyday human life. A self-driving
car is a robot. Now, it's taken us about
10 years and now Whimo is in cities
around the nation and is doing
fantastically. It's terrific to see the
Whimo's driving around in San Francisco
and other cities. It took about 10
years. Robots will take less time and
the reason for that is because we can
constrain the environments where the
robots operate and so the robots don't
have to be as general purpose as a car.
You know, once you're in San Francisco,
you got to work in every street and
every single condition. And and so in
the case of a robot, we could be a lot
more constrained from the moment that
something is
prototypable, fairly functional to the
time that it becomes high volume
product. Call it 5 years. And so we have
quite high functioning robots today. And
so in some 5 years time, we're going to
see robots get pumped out of these
factories. And every car company who
makes cars today will be very good at
building robots. They just have to get
good at the software part of it, the AI
part of it.